###### ![A close up of a sign Description generated with very high
confidence](media/image3.png){width="1.5in" height="1in"}

_italics_ **bold** ~subscript~ ~~subscript~~
BIOF 309 An introduction to Python(Thursdays)

Number of Credits

Term and Year

Syllabus

Instructor: John Lee
Preferred Method of Communication: gitter (https://gitter.im/biof309)

Prerequisites, if any: A desire to learn how to program using Python

Course Description: An introduction to programming for scientific
analysis using Python

Course Website (Canvas): The course materials and basic information is
available at https://github.com/biof309/spring\_2020\_thursdays

Learning Materials: Description of learning materials are available at
the course website

Course Goals: When you complete the course successfully, you will be
able to:

1.  Look at a task and determine if you can or should automate it

2.  Use [git](https://git-scm.com/) for keeping track of changes in your
    project and collaborating with others

3.  Create working Python programs

4.  Develop strategies for leveraging pre-existing solutions to
    analyzing your scientific data

5.  Be aware of tools and strategies that help sustainably develop
    robust software for scientific analysis

6.  Have a deep understanding of the basic structures in Python (e.g.
    lists, dicts, etc)

7.  Perform data analysis and visualization with Python

8.  Demonstrate your Python skills with a project

Structure of the Course: The course is roughly divided into 3 parts: an
online component on Datacamp to acquire a broad overview of Python (with
different tracks depending on your learning preferences) and some
hands-on exercises with real time feedback, approximately 10 weeks of
hands on class instruction to become proficient foundational skills
required for scientific computing, 4 weeks troubleshooting a project to
bring everything together and demonstrate everything you have learnt!

Teaching and learning philosophy: The most effective use of class time
are the gritty, and not so glamorous, details of getting a working
installation for scientific computing on a laptop, developing code in a
sustainable, reproducible manner, troubleshooting when things go wrong,
having a strategy for tackling longer term projects. This is emphasized
during in class time.

Methods for students to achieve success: Completing the assignments
helps. Being careful to follow the rubric during the final project is
important for achieving a high grade. A complicated scientific analysis
may be interesting (and indeed be an effective use of time since you
have the instructors at hand to help troubleshoot your problems), fun,
and useful but the bottom line for the grading is the rubric. Ask
questions if you are unsure of whether you are adequately meeting the
rubric (before the last week of the course!)

Time commitment: The more time you put into the course, the more you get
out of it. A pass, and basic proficiency in a python and project
planning can be achieved by attending the classes each week and putting
in a few extra hours during the class project. To usefully internalize
the details of what we teach and to gain expertise in python programming
you will have to do at least a couple of extra hours a week outside of
class.

Important Dates:

Mid-course project submission: Exact date TBD

Online learning: 2020-04-22

Audit and withdrawal deadline: TBD

Holidays: TBD

Final project submission: Midday following the final class

Communication: https://gitter.im/biof309

Etiquette for communication: See course website. Additionally for the
gitter channel… Questions are good. Messaging the whole group with a
“silly question” is a good thing too: it is likely that many other
people would benefit from the answer. Please do not ask a question that
has already been asked on the group gitter channel.

Policies:

Academic Policies

This course adheres to all FAES policies described in the academic
catalog and student handbook, including the Academic Integrity policy
listed on page 11 of the academic catalog and student handbook. Be
certain that you are knowledgeable about all of the policies listed in
this syllabus, in the academic catalog and student handbook, and on the
FAES website. As a student in this program, you are bound by those
policies.

Copyright

All course materials are the property of FAES and are to be used for the
student’s individual academic purpose only. Any dissemination, copying,
reproducing, modification, displaying, or transmitting of any course
material for any other purpose is prohibited, will be considered
misconduct, and may be cause for disciplinary action. In addition,
encouraging academic dishonesty by distributing information about course
materials or assignments which would give an unfair advantage to others
may violate the FAES Academic Integrity policy. Course materials may not
be exchanged or distributed for commercial purposes, for compensation,
or for any purpose other than use by students enrolled in the course.
Distributions of course materials may be subject to disciplinary action.

Guidelines for Disability Accommodations

FAES is committed to providing reasonable and appropriate accommodations
to students with disabilities. Students with documented disabilities
should contact Dr. Mindy Maris, Assistant Dean of Academic Programs.

Dropping the Course

Students are responsible for understanding FAES policies, procedures,
and deadlines regarding dropping or withdrawing from the course or
switching to audit status.

Harassment

FAES adheres to the NIH’s harassment policies, which can be found at the
following link:

<https://hr.nih.gov/working-nih/civil/statement-workplace-harassment>

Faculty and students in FAES courses are responsible for being familiar
with the NIH’s harassment policies and adhering to them.

Attendance: You are encouraged to attend each class in person. This is
not enforced or tracked. You are a free agent. Depending on demand, the
early classes may have a remote attendance option/be recorded. Based on
the hands-on approach to the class this will be considerably less useful
though.

Participation: Questions are encouraged, it is how we learn. Please
don’t be shy. If you think your question is silly, you’d be surprised to
discover that it is usually not. Others will benefit from it.

Late Submission Policies: Think of the early deadlines as amenable to
change. Think of the final deadline (midday following the last class) as
written in stone.

Expectations for instructor’s feedback on assignments: The classes of
the final weeks of the course will be solely dedicated to one on one
guidance and help with the instructors. One week prior to the deadline,
feedback will be provided on pre-existing work if any.

Major Assignments: See course website

Grading Scale: A: 90-100, B: 80-89, C: 70-79, D: 60-69, F: 0-59

Weekly Schedule: See course website
